What would you say?
How important is the disciple-making work?
Well, it is so important
that Jehovah God is directly involved in it.
How do we know?
Turn in your Bibles, please,
to 1 Corinthians 3:9
—1 Corinthians 3:9.
It says: “For we are God’s fellow workers.
You are God’s field under cultivation,
God’s building.”
Just think what a privilege we have to share
with the almighty Creator of the universe
in the work that he considers
so important here on earth.
He allows us to experience the joy
of helping to build people
into disciples of Jesus Christ.
We know from the verses
that come just before verse 9,
that while we plant
and water seeds of Kingdom truth
in the hearts of interested ones,
Jehovah is the one
who makes those seeds grow.
However, knowing this
should not minimize in our minds
the importance of our part
in the disciple-making work.
What we do and how we do it has an impact
on how those seeds of truth will grow.
And Jehovah knows that the more skilled
we become at making disciples,
the more effective
we will be as his fellow workers,
and the more enjoyable
the work will be for us.
To that end, Jehovah equips
us to teach as effectively as possible.
All we have to do is accept his help.
And that is what this symposium is all about:
learning to benefit
from the research tools Jehovah has given us,
the help that is available
from our brothers, and the power of prayer.
Each talk in this symposium
will consider two questions.
First, what help has Jehovah given us?
And second, how can we use that help
to increase our joy in the ministry?
Let’s start by talking about research tools.
What help has Jehovah given us?
He has given us the right tools
—the best tools—for our work.
Foremost of all,
he has dignified us by allowing us
to use his written Word, the Bible,
and that is our most important tool
for the ministry.
Turn to 2 Timothy 3:16, 17
—2 Timothy 3:16, 17.
It says: “All Scripture is inspired of God
“and beneficial for teaching, for reproving,
“for setting things straight,
for disciplining in righteousness,
“so that the man of God
[or woman of God] may be fully competent,
completely equipped for every good work.”
We should want to do all
we can to keep honing our skills
and using the Bible to teach the truth
about God, Christ, and the Kingdom.
And the beauty of using
the Bible is that the message
contained in it can literally change people.
Religious falsehoods and erroneous ideas
have become “strongly entrenched”
in the minds of sincere people.
But the Bible, when used effectively,
can overturn those wrong beliefs.
Why, the Bible
can even help a person understand
his own deepest thoughts and feelings.
One Bible translation
renders that 16th verse by saying:
“The Bible is useful for resetting
the direction of a man’s life.”
Through our own study of the Bible,
we can become skilled
at using the Scriptures in the ministry.
And to help us succeed in this, Jehovah
has given us a variety of research tools
to use in personal study and family worship.
These include the Watchtower Library,
the JW Library® app,
the Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY™,
and the Research Guide.
Jehovah wants us to be skillful
in using the tools he has provided
so that the proverb
will come true for us that says:
“Have you seen a man skillful at his work?
He will stand before kings.”
As you watch the following dramatization,
notice what comes up on Neeta’s Bible study
that challenges her as a teacher,
how she realizes she needs help
to teach effectively,
and what research tool she uses
to prepare for her study with Jade.
. . . making a friend with God.
Yeah, I don’t know how to do that.
Make a friend?
But you’ve done fine with me.
But I can see you—but God, a Friend?
Seriously?
How about what you can see?
What does creation teach us about him?
Um, not much
—maybe evolve or your species dies.
It doesn’t really help.
Well, I’m not talking about evolution.
I’m talking about the things
that God has created.
You don’t suppose he’s got
a little workshop up there building things
one at a time, do you?
In the real world, things evolve.
It’s all random.
I don’t know what that
tells me about him.
I wasn’t ready for this.
Evolution isn’t my strong suit.
I need help.
This could be good:
“Many who believe evolution. . .
ancient tidal pool . . .
chemicals spontaneously assembled . . .”
It’s too deep.
Wait!
Maybe: “What does the evidence reveal? . . .
“For a cell to survive, . . . DNA . . .
“RNA . . . inanimate chemicals. . .
probability . . .”
I’m not sure this is what she needs.
Her real issue
was getting to know
someone that she can’t see.
Maybe that’s the best place to begin.
“One widespread false teaching . . .
“robs people of hope . . . implies
that human life has no purpose . . .”
This could be it; establish the positive:
What creation really says about Jehovah
versus what evolution obscures.
OK, so you got me thinking, . . .
Mm-hm.
. . . and I did some research, . . .
OK. Yeah.
. . . and I think
you’ll really like what I found.
OK.
Come, come, sit down.
OK, let’s do this.
Did you see where Neeta turned for help?
The Research Guide.
With a little bit of searching
and persistence,
she found what she needed.
She got excited about the information
and passed that excitement on to her student.
How can you use
our research tools effectively?
You can use them to help you
to explain and teach the Scriptures.
For example, as with Jade,
your students may be struggling
to understand a Scriptural teaching.
Or you may have a student
who is trying to overcome a personal problem.
Use the tools that Jehovah
has given us to search for an explanation
or an illustration that will help the person.
And you may not even have to do
all the work yourself.
Perhaps you can show
your students how to use our tools
in order to find
the Bible’s answers to their questions.
Do your best, though,
to learn how to use our research tools.
Likely, you already use
JW Library for personal study
and family worship and to prepare
for congregation meetings.
But if you keep up-to-date
with new features in the JW Library app,
you can also use it
to good advantage in your ministry.
There are even features
built into the app that make it possible
for you to save the research
that you have done
so that you can use it again in the future.
What are those features?
Notes and tags
—notes and tags.
Have you learned how to use them?
Well, now you can.
If you have JW Library with you on a device,
open the Bible to 1 Timothy chapter 2
—1 Timothy chapter 2—
and follow along with this tutorial video.
Are you making full use of JW Library®?
Let’s learn how some are using it,
and then practice together.
I create notes in my Bible
for many different reasons.
It could be a good point from a talk,
an illustration to help me
to explain something to a Bible student,
or something for my own meditation.
I highlight the key phrase
and create a note.
Let’s practice together.
If you have JW Library,
find 1 Timothy 2:6 in the Bible.
Now highlight the word “ransom,”
and tap the “Add a note” button.
Then type your comment.
Tapping the note marker in the margin
brings your comment into view.
I’ve created a lot of notes.
I use tags to help me find them again.
For example, whenever I hear a point
that I want to use in the ministry,
I create a note and add a tag
like “prayer,” “ransom,” or “last days.”
Then when I’m in the ministry,
I can quickly find my note.
Let’s practice together.
On the note you just created,
tap the three dots
and then “Edit.”
Now tap the button “Add a tag,”
and enter a tag name.
In this case, type “ransom.”
You can add as many tags as you like.
To find your notes again,
go to the Personal Study tab.
You can type in the Search box,
or you can just tap the tag.
As I read the Bible chapters
for the midweek meeting,
I often come across verses
that I want to understand better.
So I check the Research Guide.
Sometimes I use the points
I find in a comment at the meeting.
Let’s practice together.
Are you still at 1 Timothy chapter 2?
Tap on the number for verse 6,
then tap the Research Guide button
on the menu.
Now you can read information
that explains this verse.
You can even copy a portion
of the research and paste it into your note.
If you are like me, you will probably
have to watch that video a few more times.
If you find it challenging
to learn how to use
some of the features of our tools,
here are two things you can do.
First, ask someone
in your congregation to assist you,
and often the young people can help the most.
Second, go to jw.org®,
scroll to the bottom of any page,
click on JW Library,
and there you will find
more tutorial videos that you can watch.
As announced at the 2018 annual meeting,
our research tools are being redesigned
to be unified and more user-friendly.
Be sure to learn the new features
as they are released.
And may you joyfully work with Jehovah
by using the research tools
he has provided for making disciples.
Brother Joel Dellinger,
a helper to the Service Committee,
will now present
the next talk of this symposium:
“Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making
—Accept Jehovah’s Help—Our Brothers.”